Blog 1: Image: YogaSuzy

I am delighted to be offering Raw Food, Radiant Life education – a dream come true!  In my many years as an  occupational therapist, it has been heart-wrenching witnessing the tremendous suffering of people trying to manage with serious, frequently disabling and/or life-limiting illness.  Over and over again, I have journeyed with them through illness and many times into death.  It has been a labor of love, and, much as I have wanted to give my patients all that I could, I have very frequently felt that what I had to offer was paltry in comparison to the enormity of their challenges. In my desire to offer more, I have been diligently  seeking new ways to help through complementary methods. That quest began with prayer, continued into studying/teaching Reiki, then massage, CranioSacral therapy, Healing Touch, Ancient Rainbow Conscious Healing, aromatherapy, guided imagery, and yoga.  My own health challenges with an autoimmune disease, termed “undifferentiated connective tissue disease,” diagnosed in 2000, fueled my interest in raw, vegan nutrition, and, when I began to recover, I felt impelled to teach it.  I found the answer to my deep desire for more training in a Spiritual Nutrition Mastery program developed by Gabriel Cousens, MD, at the Tree of Life Rejuvenation Center.  Following Dr. Cousens’ program, I have recovered – off all medication, lab values normal, jogging (slowly) 1-2 miles, and now with the energy to share it all with you.  I no longer feel that what I have to offer is paltry; it is amazing!   I long to share it with you. If you are dealing with an illness – autoimmune disease, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, essentially any other ailment, or if you just want to feel more alive, vibrant, and tuned in to your spiritual nature, I hope you will connect with me through my Raw Food, Radiant Life! classes (offered live and online), and/or through private massage, CranioSacral, and Infinite Oneness touch therapy sessions.

Blog 2: Image: Swing
Eagle Mountain Lake, Azle, TX

Enjoy the rejuvenating powers of silence, sound, reflection, movement, and nutrition in this overnight retreat at Eagle Mountain Lake, approximately 30 minutes north of downtown Fort Worth. The retreat will be held in silence except for a sound healing session featuring the exquisite healing voice of opera soprano Anna Frederika Poppova, and the ethereal tones of crystal singing bowls, played by licensed massage therapist John Howell. Delicious vegan meals will be served, with an emphasis on fresh, raw ingredients. The activities you may choose from include massage, private gentle yoga, simple, meditative qigong exercise, lounging in a hammock, creating a vision board, stringing a bracelet, journaling, and hiking at Eagle Mountain Park (on Sunday following the retreat). Though the retreat is within commuting distance for those residing in Dallas/Fort Worth, women may choose to stay overnight in our women’s bunk room. For men, as well as for women choosing to stay nearby, there are cabins at Eagle Mountain Park, as well as Airbnb and VRBO options nearby. The next retreat is planned for autumn, 2021. Please let me know if you are interested, and I will add you to a waiting list.

HealingSynergies@gmail.com

Blog 3: Image: tomatoes
Regarding Cultivating Plants & Wellness:

“It has been a dream of mine to be able to prepare meals for my family of 4, with food from my own backyard, and now I have the opportunity to learn from Cultivating Plants & Wellness. My two teens and my husband are so willing to try new dishes prepared with food from our own garden; it seems that after they got involved in the process, they found a new skill in appreciating the shape, color and flavor of the real food.” ~ Lourdes, Grapevine, TX

Regarding Ancient Rainbow Conscious Healing (ARCH) class:

“I’d like to say a few heartfelt things about Suzy as a person, as well as a professional instructor/coach/mentor – Suzy’s ARCH class is exceptional – of unparalleled value to any program/training I’ve received throughout my 25 years in the helping/healing profession. Not only was it spiritually transforming, but it expanding the repertoire, quality and efficacy of the tools I use in my hypnosis/healing practice. Suzy’s level of investment in her students/mentees is exquisite and “other worldly.”  I am forever blessed and grateful for her commitment to helping build a strong community of Healers. With Love & Appreciation, Amy Marohn, MS, C.Ht., C-KAHP, Sensorium Hypnosis, LLC. (Seattle, WA)”
“It was mind-boggling for days. For seven years I have been practicing energy work; I’ve never experienced the power and strength of this.” ~Bebe, Grapevine, TX
“It was a wonderful experience. 10/10 recommend. ~Natalia, Lewisville, TX
“I loved the guided meditations…excellent way to relieve grief of anger or any negative energy…thank you so much.” ~ Ben, Fort Worth, TX
“It took all of my years to come to this place…great class.” ~ Diana, Euless, TX
“Your love is broader than the sea and I feel blessed to bathe in your waters.” ~ Lucy, Arlington, TX

Regarding Raw Food, Radiant Life! weekend intensives:

“Suzy is amazing and doing the Lord’s work. Just finished the Raw Food, Radiant Life! challenge and I feel fantastic. Mind is clear and I feel really healthy.”~ Sharon M., Dallas/Fort Worth, TX
“What I liked best about the class was: “The FOOD! and all the eye-opening information.  Mostly the hands-on stuff.”  ~ Joe, Austin, TX
“God’s blessings to you, dear friend, and I hope there will be many, many people who hear your testimony and your excellent presentation and demonstration about the benefits and lifelong value of raw, low-glycemic meals and lifestyle.  You have been a tremendous boost and example of possibilities for me.  Thank you!” ~ Marian, Richardson, TX
What I liked most about the class was: “Great actually making recipes and eating them!  Thanks for the resource list also.  I thought it was great!”     ~ Nicole, Grapevine, TX
“Learning to prepare raw foods with Suzy is fun and easy to learn. Not only does Suzy know how to teach you to prepare the food, but she can tell why the food is good for you. The best part is that as soon as you finish putting together the ingredients for a recipe, it is ready to eat. You don’t have to wait for it to cook. The other best part is that I found raw food tastes good and is good for you. As Hippocrates said: ‘Let food be your medicine and medicine be your food.'”  ~ Richard, Irving, TX
“Suzy has over a decade of experience living the raw vegan diet. And she’s an excellent teacher!” ~ Cindy, Grand Prairie, TX
“Great class!” ~ Terri, Fort Worth, TX
“Bring on the healthy food!!! Guys, Suzy is amazing and easy at coaching raw food to your diet! I wouldn’t pass this up if you’re very serious about getting dis-ease outa your body. Even though I haven’t went raw yet (one day) I sure am mindful to eat to heal!!” ~Bebe, Grapevine, TX

Blog 4: Image: Any unused photos from the gallery
Raw Food, Radiant Life! Retreat
August 25, 2024
Nurture your body, mind, and spirit in this weekend retreat!
Learn the substantial benefits of various modalities to assist you in opening yourself to more vitality: a raw, organic, vegan diet, Shibashi qi gong exercise, gentle yoga, aromatherapy, and meditation. You will assist in the preparation of simple raw, organic, vegan meals, and then enjoy them! Studies have shown that a raw, vegan diet assists greatly in managing a variety of health conditions, and it will bring vitality to your life!

Suzy Edmonson, LOT, RMT, C-AK, SNC certified Live Food and Lifestyle Instructor and health coach (pink shirt, left), will be your guide for raw, vegan nutrition, gentle yoga, and relaxation methods. Suzy has been an occupational therapist for over 30 years, specializing in complementary methods. She has completed a masters-level program in Spiritual Nutrition, through internationally reknowned holistic physician Gabriel Cousens, MD. The methods incorporated in this weekend were instrumental in her recovery from an autoimmune illness similar to rheumatoid arthritis, and it is the diet/lifestyle she follows as a cancer survivor.



Where:
12 Eagle Point North, Azle, TX, 76020, at Eagle Mountain Lake, 30 minutes north of  downtown Fort Worth.



When: 
Our next workshop /retreat will be September 20-22, 2024
Cost and registration: 
Retreat registration is limited to 10 motivated, food adventurous, health-oriented people!
For the full weekend workshop/retreat, early bird registration is $225. through Sept. 8th; late registration is $275.- includes meals and classes.
You may also register for Saturday only, 9:00 am to 7:30 pm (with a 1-hour break),. Saturday focuses on learning the benefits of a raw, vegan diet and on preparing (and enjoying!) the recipes. Early bird registration (through Sept. 8) for Saturday only is $175. and late registration is $225.

It is also possible to register for Saturday and either Friday evening or Sunday morning. In that event, you would register for Saturday and then add on Friday or Sunday, $25. for either.

Bring a friend and get $25. off for each!
Accommodations:
The location is within commuting distance for the Dallas/Fort Worth  area. Also, dorm-style accommodations are available in our women’s bunk room for $30./night. For men and for women preferring more private accommodations, there are simple fishing cabins you  reserve at Eagle Mountain Lake, as well as airbnb/vrbo/motel options.
Here is the retreat schedule.
For more information:
Contact Suzy Edmonson 817 996-9961, or email: healingsynergies@gmail.com
We hope to see you there!  Namaste!

Blog 5: Image: Cartoon
Welcome to Cultivating Plants & Wellness! Below are the monthly video links so you can get growing:
September: Gardening Part 1, Part 2 and preparing food from the garden – preserving herbs!
October: Gardening and preparing food simple raw, vegan pizza! (recipe in print)
November: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Rawvioli! (recipe in print)
December: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Autumn Kale Salad! (recipe in print)
January: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Apple Spice Smoothie! (recipe in print)
February: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Cabbage with Bon-bon Sauce! (recipe in print)
March: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Sauerkraut! (recipe in print)
April: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Rawtwurst Wraps! (recipe in print)
May: Gardening and preparing food from the garden – Veggies with Rawkin’ Ranch Dip! (recipe in print)
June: Gardening and preparing food from the garden –  Sweet Italian Herb Spaghetti! (recipe in print)
July: Gardening and preparing food from the garden –  Raw Pear Crisp! (recipe in print)
August – Kids’ Virtual Retreat Special Edition! Gardening, preparing food, relaxing with sound (recipes in print: Banana Ice Cream with Chocolate Shell /Banana Pops, Fruit on a Stick, Raw, Vegan Cake Pops)

Blog 6: Image: JoeStory

My 26-year-old nephew, Josef, who attended the Raw Food, Radiant Life! class about a month ago told me over the phone that he had put into practice what he had learned, and he “felt better.” I asked him “In what ways?” He told me that he would put it in an e-mail. This is what I received:

Hi Suzy,

I notice a big difference when I’m eating more or only raw. Before I found raw I noticed that no matter what I ate there always was a certain degree of discomfort after every meal. Sometimes it would be severe discomfort and I would be unable to stay awake. I guess that was the sugar spike and crash. When it comes to raw foods, it’s different though. I never feel any kind of discomfort, feel full sooner, and actually feel BETTER than before the meal.

This is astounding to me because everything I eat always has negative effects on my mood and comfort level. There are even times I’m in a bad mood and feel sluggish and just blah but then I eat a good raw meal and am elevated! My senses are more heightened, I see and hear better, I feel lighter and less stressed. Its like taking a magic pill, and its my number one motivation for eating raw because my whole life its always been the exact opposite.
You eat cooked food = you feel worse off mentally, physically, and psychologically.
You eat Raw = You’re elevated mentally, physically, and psychologically from the state you were before you ate.
…..Mind Blown.

The coolest part that I’ve experienced is the spirituality part. When I was a child I grew up in a wooded area and I always felt extremely connected to everything. I grew up and I noticed that I didn’t feel like that anymore, but I remembered feeling like that so it was like I lost something. The more I eat raw the more I feel like I am revisiting an old feeling of connection to the things around me. I don’t feel so shut off or clipped from the cloth. There is an overwhelming sense of lightness sometimes, lightness from my worries and anxieties, lightness with my body like its easier to move … I’m not fighting against my body as if I were in quicksand; we are connected again and on the same page.

Also, much like what meditation does for you in all aspects of life, raw food seems to have a lot of the same effects. Your mind is clearer and your heart rate is lower when put under strain. You’re more understanding and not quick to hate, judge, fear, or give up.

I could go on forever about all the changes I feel, and it seems like the more I do it and the more consistent I am, the more intensely beautiful my life becomes. I’ve never experienced more dramatic positive change from anything else. In my experience, when you go raw all the other negative things seem to change or transform, or your perception transforms about them. People are always trying to change for the better and constantly failing; raw food excites so much change in your life for the better that it almost seems too simple. Which is kind of funny, because the raw foods diet is very hard… but when you compare it to the massive amounts of positive effects… it might as well be a magic pill. I could work on all these things without raw food and not achieve them in 2 life times.

It’s like “growing younger.”

I am mostly excited about what I have yet to experience.

I hope you don’t mind my ranting about raw food lol. These are just some thought and things I’ve noticed.. like I said, I could go on for ever; Ill try and send you more as it happens.

You can feel free to edit anything if it doesn’t make sense how I put it, I’m sure you know exactly what I am talking about in this email even more so than I do! lol

Thank You Suzy!!

Raw-k on, Joe! So proud of you! 

Blog 7: Image: Meal
Hi, Everyone!

Welcome to the Raw Food, Radiant Life 3-Week Challenge!  Your participation in this class can be truly life changing! In this program, you will be learning about the amazing mind/body/spirit benefits of a raw, vegan, low-glycemic diet. Through online videos and a recorded PowerPoint presentation, you’ll learn to prepare nutritious, delicious, simple, budget-conscious, raw, vegan, low-glycemic recipes, including breakfast, lunch, and dinner fare. You will follow the diet/lifestyle for 3 weeks. You can do it and your body, mind and spirit will be so thankful that you did! If you are interested and have not yet signed up, you can contact me to register. However, because I want to extend this information to as many people as possible, you are welcome to peruse this page and use the materials without officially signing up for the 3-week challenge; in that event, please consider making a donation of any amount to support me in making this available. If you would like to officially participate in the challenge, which includes the support calls, you will need to register, and I am currently offering a discounted fee of $60., payable on the donation page.

You will need a medium-size food processor and a high-quality blender to follow the program as outlined. A Vitamix or BlendTec would do nicely, but any high-quality blender will suffice. It is possible to do your own version of the program without a blender or food processor, but it would add another level of challenge, and you would be eating a lot of salads. A juicer is also very helpful, but not necessary.

To begin the program, you’ll want to watch the recorded PowerPoint presentation by following the link and then downloading it; you need to download it first so the audio will play. The presentation is a little over an hour. After viewing and listening to the recorded PowerPoint, please view the Raw Food, Radiant Life! food preparation recording. Next, you’ll need to watch an excellent documentary that is part of the education, Raw for Life, and it is now available on YouTube, in 2 parts: part 1, and part 2.

Included in the course are a program journal, phase chart, and a lot of recipes from which you can pick and choose. A typical pattern for me is drinking a Mocha Latte in the morning, eating a big salad at lunch, eating a couple of fruits during the day, drinking a green smoothie, and snacking on a few packaged raw, vegan foods. Easy peasy! If you want a more calorie-dense diet, try some of the nut pates. I have also developed meal plans for for week 1, week 2, and week 3, which include a juice and a smoothie everyday. These meal plans are very nutrient dense, but more labor intensive and expensive than the easy peasy pattern that I currently follow. Still, you might find them helpful to explore, following the plans exactly or just taking ideas from them and and adapting them to your own needs. The phase chart is reviewed in the PowerPoint presentation. Here is a resource list for food items that you might have a hard time finding locally, as well as websites for finding a juicer or Vitamix: Online Sources for Raw Food Products. A very helpful, but not absolutely necessary, resource is the book Rainbow Green, Live Food Cuisine, by holistic physician Dr. Gabriel Cousens. It has over 300 delicious raw, vegan recipes, most of them very simple.

The program includes not only a raw, vegan, low-gylcemic diet, but also exercise and relaxation methods; here is one of my favorite spiritual development/relaxation methods: centering prayer/word-focusing meditation. As always, check with your physician/health care provider prior to beginning any exercise routine, exercise within any medical activity restrictions, and always, always respect your body, never pushing, allowing discomfort to be a guide for you. Also, please check out the Facebook page for the 3-Week Challenge, and give us a post!

So, in summary, here is a list of things to do to begin this new chapter in becoming radiantly healthy.  Please complete the checklist by the beginning of the challenge, when you will begin actually following the diet/lifestyle on Monday.  Our first conference call will be the preceding Saturday evening at 8:00 pm. Please join the conference call by calling: 605 313-4166, and entering the access code: 432865.

Download the journal, phase chart, online sources for raw food products and recipes. Also consider downloading the handout on sanitizing produce, the centering prayer/word-focusing meditation handout, and information regarding cancer-related fatigue, if relevant for you.
View the PowerPoint (~1 hour).
View my YouTube video (~1 hour).
Watch the indicated Raw for Life episodes on Youtube (2 hours), part 1, and part 2.
Sign in on the Facebook page.
Weigh yourself and take a “before” photo.
Shop for food to begin the challenge by Monday.
Consider ordering Dr. Cousen’s book, Rainbow Green, Live Food Cuisine.
Participate in the conference call Saturday at 8:00 p.m, by calling 605 313-4166, and entering the access code: 432865. 

I am so excited that you are taking this steps to dramatically improve your health, and allowing me to be your guide!  You will be so happy you did!

To our health!

Suzy

Blog 8: Image: ARCH
From the website of my wonderful teacher, Laurie Grant, who regularly experiences Unitive consciousness/Oneness with Divine Source:

What is ARCH?
Founded by Laurie Grant, who was a world-reknowned Reiki Master at the time, the healing energy of ARCH is a Quantum Leap Beyond Reiki. A lot of people have heard of Reiki because it has been around for the last 100 years. In fact, Laurie was told by Spirit that Reiki was the most powerful healing energy availiable during that time period and she can tout the miraculous results she has experienced from Reiki. Then she discovered ARCH in 2000 and knew that the healing power that came through ARCH was way beyond any of the healing energy she experienced with Reiki. If you like Reiki or Reiki Healing Touch, or any hands on healing, and feel like there could be more, or if you are just now exploring Reiki, we invite you to explore the possiblity of ARCH and the healing power it has to offer you and the world around you.

An Explanation of ARCH
(An excerpt from Laurie’s book, Kahuna ARCH Healing, A Bridge Back to Oneness)
“Essentially, it is an ancient way of using Divine Source energy for healing and transformation and for guiding people back to Oneness. ‘ARCH’ is an acronym for ‘Ancient Rainbow Conscious Healing,’ specific words I received in meditation for describing the healing system I was privileged to recover. My own healing took place in Hawaii, and a deep soul connection with Hawaiian spirituality set the course for my work. As Ku Kahuna Lokahi says, he believes ARCH goes ‘back to the time when Kahuna practiced without herbs and medicine and did unbelievable healing of great magnitude through the ‘Spiritual Realm.” However, although ARCH knowledge came to Laurie through Hawaiian tradition, it is not just Hawaiian spirituality. It is Universal.

ARCH offers powerful healing of the body, mind, emotions and spirit. Though it is not a religion, ARCH holds a lifesaving, life-enhancing message: You are One with the Divine Source, and therefore limitless and powerful. You share in Divine Source energy, and you have access to the sacred and to healing. All you need to do is remember your true self. ARCH helps you remember your Divine Essence.
This is a short explanation of the components of ARCH as taught to Laurie by Spirit:

Ancient. ARCH accesses centuries old shamanic healing techniques and the knowledge of the Kahuna, the shaman priests of Old Hawaii. Going back millennia, ARCH recovers wisdom that was kept alive by the Rainbow People. This knowledge originally comes from a place beyond space and time.

Rainbow. ARCH uses the full spectrum of colors in rainbow light to promote healing, and this light comes directly from the Divine Source. As a symbol, the rainbow represents the bridge that connects you to your Source. The Rainbow People were ancient beings who knew their Oneness with the Divine Source, and were the first to live the principles of ARCH. They committed many lifetimes to help people of all different cultures and races to remember their true spiritual nature.

Conscious. ARCH helps you discover the origins of illness and promotes a “conscious” approach to getting well. ARCH practitioners learn a new way of living. So much is possible when you honor your body and wake up to your divine nature. You open your heart to love, your spirit to bliss, and your body to healing. Your energy is free to move toward your highest good, to create miracles.

Healing. ARCH healing not only goes to the roots of illness, it removes the energy blockages that are responsible for dis-ease. It can create dramatic and instant changes in physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual conditions. When you believe you are separate from your Source, you allow in dis-ease. ARCH creates a space where healing can occur and reconnect you to your Divine Source. In the years since ARCH was rediscovered, people all over the world have benefited from this incredible healing.

ARCH. The four words Laurie received from Spirit formed another word with profound meaning. The arch represents the bridge of rainbow light that you cross on your journey back to Oneness with the Divine Source. Laurie learned that the Hawaiian petroglyph of an arch symbolizes the Divine. In meditation, she discovered that in their rituals, the ancient Rainbow People used the imagery of the arched bridge to symbolize transformation.

If this resonates with you, or you feel interested or connected to this message in some way, I invite you to join me at one of my ARCH workshops, where you can further explore your path back to Oneness!

Retrieved and adapted from Laurie’s website.

I (Suzy Edmonson, one of Laurie’s students) am delighted to be offering ARCH classes.

When: The next ARCH class is not yet scheduled. Please contact me if you are interested.Where: It will be held at our little retreat house at Eagle Mountain Lake: 12 Eagle Point North, Azle, TX, 76020.Cost: The early-bird class fee is $344. (until 3 weeks prior to the class); after that date, the fee is $394. A non-refundable deposit of $75. is due 2 weeks prior to the class, and the balance is due prior to the beginning of class. When your deposit is received, I will send a preliminary exercise and booklet. Payments are accepted via Paypal or credit card, check, or money order. Checks should be made payable to Suzy Edmonson and mailed to 2116 Tamworth Ct, Bedford, TX 76021.What’s included: Registration includes class fee, class manual, and overnight accommodations (for women) in our women’s bunk room (sleeps 8 – twin-size trundle beds in a large, up stairs, single room with one bathroom and access to the bathroom in the main house, as needed). You are, naturally, free to stay off site if you prefer more private accommodations.Travel: DFW airport is approximately 75 minutes away with light traffic, and approximately 1.5 hours away with heavier traffic. Dallas Love Field is approximately 30 minutes further than DFW airport.Contact: If you have questions, feel free to contact me via email (best) or cell phone: 817 996-9961.Aloha and many blessings to you!